jazz by definition or one of the
defining characteristics of jazz
actually is the idea of improvisation so
let's try improvising with our left hand
no we'll get off the cross stick go back
to playing a regular snare drum sound
alright and this time I'm just going to
use all you know mix and match different
subdivisions eighth and sixteenth on my
left hand and I'm going to improvise
against the basic Samba pattern with my
feet and eighth notes on my right hand
on the ride cymbal and play you know try
and do what jazz drummers called comping
right so you know a jazz drummer plenty
of traditional swing pattern with his
left hand would play something that
compliments right hence the term comping
maybe what the piano player or the
guitar player or the horn player is
doing we're gonna do the same thing with
the Jazz Samba in this case we're gonna
comp right or accompany the other
musicians and listen to again always
listening always paying attention right
none of this exists in a vacuum you're
always listening to what other musicians
are doing trying to pay attention trying
to absorb and reflect and work with the
other things that are happening
totally and rhythmically on stage right
you're part of a whole ensemble you're
not just playing you know groove number
27 so here's what right
jazz Samba would sound like with some
left hand improvisation on the snare
right now you'll notice in addition to
playing different rhythms of my left
hand I'm also incorporating dynamics
alright playing loud and soft notes
different types of strokes trying to be
using buzzes taps accents you can use
rim shots there's a lot of different
sounds out of a snare drum other than
just whack so always make sure that when
you're playing you know use musical
devices use tone right playing in the
center of snare drum is gonna sound
different than playing out toward the
edge of a snare drum so you can use the
tone and timbre of the drum right to
help kind of shade if you will the
different sounds that you get or the
type of sound you know if your piano
accompanying the piano player and
they're playing way up on the high end
of the keyboard you might want to sit
you know move your stick out toward the
edge of the snare drum and use the
higher end of the scenario right here's
in the center here's on the edge I had
two really distinctive sounds so if
you're you know something that's a
higher voice and you want to kind of
work with that you can move out toward
the edge of the snare drum alright if
somebody's using longer tones
you know vocalist and horn players have
the advantage of being able to play
longer notes or held notes you can kind
of work with that using you know a buzz
stroke or a roll give the note a longer
sound right so those are different
choices that you can make when trying to
come up with left-hand accompaniment or
comping with your left hand against a
jazz Samba alright so go home work that
out always remember with a metronome
make sure that everything is locked in
and keep practicing we'll see you next
time